---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-24T06:05:34.887Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-24T06:05:34.472Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: HAPTICS
author: []
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-24-haptics.md
published: true
url: haptics/index.html
_type: Article

---
## HAPTICS

Trackpads, by their nature, are less physical than thumbsticks. By themselves, they are "light touch" devices and don't offer the kind of visceral feedback that players get from pushing joysticks around. As we investigated trackpad-based input devices, it became clear through testing that we had to find ways to add more physicality to the experience. It also became clear that "rumble", as it has been traditionally implemented (a lopsided weight spun around a single axis), was not going to be enough. Not even close.

The Steam Controller is built around a new generation of super-precise haptic feedback, employing dual linear resonant actuators. These small, strong, weighted electro-magnets are attached to each of the dual trackpads. They are capable of delivering a wide range of force and vibration, allowing precise control over frequency, amplitude, and direction of movement.

This haptic capability provides a vital channel of information to the player - delivering in-game information about speed, boundaries, thresholds, textures, action confirmations, or any other events about which game designers want players to be aware. It is a higher-bandwidth haptic information channel than exists in any other consumer product that we know of. As a parlour trick they can even play audio waveforms and function as speakers.